# ProdReg

##### An Idea for a Consumer Product Management Webapp

<small>July 12th, 2014</small>

---

A little over a year a go, I noticed that the number of devices I had was starting to multiply annually. At the time I had a smartphone, laptop, Windows 8 desktop, an Android tablet, USB storage device, Chromecast, and a Chromebook. This was before I accounted for all the web services I was subscribed to.

To me, this was a problem. (Skip the next two paragraphs for my conceptual solution). While most people view this as a plain fact of modern life, I view my material and web possessions as luxuries and data points. I feel that everything in my life needs to be tracked, quantified, appraised for its value at a reasonable interval of time. So when I realized that own a lot of electronic devices which controlled and stored almost all of my personal and professional existence, I saw it as a problem. I had no idea what any of those devices were worth or how my portfolio of devices was affecting my overall financial goals.

It was a pain to look-up how much the general community was selling my phone for on different consumer resale websites. And forget about tracking weekly reports on the most recent news relevant to my devices and their software and hardware ecosystems. Oh what's that? You want a web-service to calculate and track these things and keep you in the loop? HAHAHAHAHA. You fool.

Seeing as I had a problem on my hand, like any bad developer, I immediately started designing a web service which would do all of that and more. Because, you know, web apps are the solution to all problems.

Anyway, here's what I wanted to be able to know about my material and web possessions listed in order of importance:

- [ ] What do I own or subscribe to? (Products)
	- [ ] Possible ways to import the list of devices you own:
		- [ ] Input your credentials and we will retrieve your purchase order history (bad idea)
		- [ ] Add a bookmarklet or Chrome extension which you can click while on an order history page of any major retailer website (This was recommended by my co-worker)
		- [ ] Download a special barcode scanning app and scan the barcode of each device
			- [ ] The device you download the app onto is automatically added unless you specify otherwise
		- [ ] Manually add each device (fuuuuccckkkkk that)

	- [ ] Categorized, filterable, sortable, and with the option of displaying in a myriad of ways (list, cards, etc.)

- [ ] What is the value of each possessions / service? (Value)
	- [ ] How much has a web service cost me thus far since I first subscribed, since a year a go, and this month?
	- [ ] How much has each product cost me? Including accessories, extended warranties, etc.
	- [ ] What is the current average value of the product on big-name sites (accounting for the condition of my product)?
	- [ ] What are some alternatives to that service or product? How much does it cost?

- [ ] What is going on in the software / hardware / platform world for that product? (News)
	- [ ] Are there any updates for the product currently or soon upcoming?
	- [ ] Is the company that owns it going out of business?
	- [ ] Is a new version of the product coming out soon?

- [ ] Update events / status of my device (Status)
	- [ ] I imagined it very similar to a Facebook feed where you can simply start typing a status and tag a product it happened to.
	- [ ] Example status: `"@DeviceName Cracked screen, got it repaired for $20"`

- [ ] Profile my ownership (Consumer Profile: Paid Subscribers Only)
	- [ ] Am I heavily invested in a single platform?
	- [ ] What patterns do I display?
		- [ ] ex: buys cheap products, buys highly rated items, prefers Amazon ecosystem over Google, buys Chinese manufactured products 90% of the time, buys red version of items, etc.
	- [ ] Am I missing out on indie (smaller) brands which fit my preferences?

- [ ] My per-device risk exposure
	- [ ] Is a single device eating up lots of my budget w accessories?
	- [ ] Is a single web service proportionately taking up too much of my relative budget for that category?
	- [ ] Am I buying too many alternatives when I can save money by consolidating platforms or device-types?

- [ ] Document attachments (Attachments)
	- [ ] Attach receipts
	- [ ] Automated documentation retrieval by the service

I called it **ProdReg**. Yea, I suck at naming things.

Essentially, I was at the beginning stages of creating a personal-"social"-network of devices that I could use as easily as Facebook or Mint. But in the traditional sense, a social network is meant to be heavily consumption based. You make a post, 100 people see the post, 10 like it, 5 of them comment on it, and the cycle continues. That is, of course, a huge over-simplification but it is the essence of the dynamic behind social networks. With ProdReg, however, I wanted the "social" aspect to be the ever-living updating of statistics, web service parsing, and reporting. If something happened on the intelligence end-points which affected my product network, I wanted it to be updated in a digestible data point.

But before I could really commit any meaningful code, life happened. I got a new job, moved in with my girlfriend, got a new apartment, got a new job, and started working on other ideas. And ProdReg (along with a few other ideas) continued existed only as an entry in my idea notebook. I even tried to commit some superficial code to GitHub as a promise to myself that I would complete the idea. That never went anywhere.

I realize that a lot of the list might sound impossible or overly-niche. But I simply don't care if it sounds demanding. It is the feature-set and product vision which would win me over, help me satisfy my need, and probably get me to hand over up to $200 a year to you.